So we could edit this set so it looks
like we're on
>> Yes. Yeah, yeah, we I want this where
where we were talking off camera like we
should do that for the intro because I
think it just like makes all this stuff
more capable. I've seen these examples
of like such subtle nuance that like
make me appreciate that it's like the
world understanding playing out. I was I
was giving a talk um
and was on stage with with my friend
Tulsi who leads the model team. I had
mentioned to someone in the crowd to
like edit the video and they had
literally like took the picture, edited
it with omni in real time and this like
dog came on the stage in the edited
version. The other guests sort of like
looked down and see the dog. They like
chuckle a little bit. This is while I'm
like opining about whatever AI nonsense.
>> jokes.
>> Yeah, that it was not my jokes. They
[laughter] they laugh at the dog coming
up. It jumps onto my lap. I sort of like
acknowledge the dog. I keep talking. I'm
like petting it or whatever and just
like there's like so much subtle
subtlety in getting that right and the
model crushed it and it's just it it
very interesting and like still trying
to like absorb and digest [music] like
what that means for you know, the way we
make content and all these other things.
>> That's so interesting.
>> [music]
[music]
>> I'm delighted to have Logan on the show.
Logan runs Google AI studio and the
Gemini API. You spend a lot of your time
thinking and building for the next
generation of builders.
>> Yes.
>> So I'm excited to talk to you about
everything from my agentic AI to AI
coding, world models and more today and
right off the heels of Google IO. So
what better timing?
>> Yeah, I'm super excited. Thank you for
having me.
>> Wonderful. Um let's start with agentic
AI. So Sundar opened IO by calling this
the agentic Gemini era. What does
agentic AI mean for Google?
>> Yeah. It's a good question. I think and
we were
uh we sort of if you if you followed
closely, we did sort of mention some of
these things back with like Gemini 2.0,
which I think was like a a little bit
early. And so, I think this era, this
like Gemini 3.5 era, feels like it's
actually becoming true now and we're in
the era of agentic coding uh or agentic
products and everything agents as far as
Gemini goes. I think for us
this agentic layer, and I think we we
announced this actually at IO, um sort
of being powered by the anti-gravity
agent harness, is this like additional
through line for Google that sort of
connects all of our products that
they're sort of like based on now. And
so, historically like prior to Gemini,
there actually like wasn't a through
line for the, you know, probably
sub-100 number of Google products that
we have, the 50 Google products we have,
there wasn't a through line. We had
Gemini, it became this through line,
everything is now sort of using Gemini
in some way. That's now becoming true
for anti-gravity as sort of all of the
products rebase um to become sort of
like agentic native products and like
actually taking action on behalf of
users and helping them get things done.
You see this like new through line
emerging, which I think is actually
really, really interesting. Um
and so
>> And sorry, help me with anti-gravity is
the
the IDE, right? Or the non-IDE?
>> Yeah, anti-gravity is is a lot of
things, which I think is is sort of
again uh is an is an opportunity for us.
Um you have sort of a core IDE, you have
sort of like the agent first experience
if you want it on the web, you have a
CLI, you have an SDK. So, I actually
think and I don't know how much we
framed it this way, but like it really
is an ecosystem of stuff that we built.
And it's designed to sort of like meet
developers wherever they are. So, you
could use it through the Gemini API if
you want to and you want a managed agent
that you don't have to do any of the the
sort of infrastructure work for. Um
and then the most interesting bit is
like it's not just the ecosystem of
anti-gravity stuff, it's also powering
like literally it's the the same harness
is actually powering all the other
Google products. So, anti-gravity will
be powering a bunch of agent stuff in
search, in the Gemini app, um across
like cloud and and ASU deal, which is
really exciting.
>> I see. So, it used to be the Gemini API,
so like the language model was the
through line in terms of how AI gets
baked into every Google product.
>> Yeah.
>> And now it's not only the API, it's the
the coding harness.
>> Exactly.
>> Um that's that's being used into these
products and therefore it's a coding
agent itself that's driving more agentic
properties.
>> Yeah.
>> products.
>> Yeah, and I think
>> description?
>> Fair fair description. I think more
generically too, it's just like it is
the agent harness. I think like coding
is sort of like a specialized use case
of the agent harness. I think is is
obviously powerful, but it is like
coding has proved to be the general
purpose agent harness in addition to
also working really well for coding.
>> Are agent harness and coding harness
synonymous or not?
>> There's definitely nuance. I think
there's like optimization that you can
squeeze out of like specializing and
actually you see this where like the you
know, technically the agent harness that
gets used for the way that AI Studio
uses it is like a little bit specialized
for you know, the vibe coding use case
and the the way that the Gemini app is
using the agent harness is a little bit
specialized for the sort of consumer
always on 24/7 agent.
Um so, I think you have that base
harness
um that like probably has like 80% of
the same stuff and then you specialize
for for coding or for whatever the use
case is.
>> Interesting. How do you think about the
cannibalization of the existing
business, especially now that you are
you know, going much more aggressively
into agentic properties? Because I could
see, for example, if all you're doing is
search or summarization, um there's you
know, not as much of a cannibalization
fear. Whereas if you're actually
going through my emails, replying
replying to them for me, like am I even
going through my email anymore? And so,
I could imagine that there's actually
just fewer human eyeball hours um
uh on your products as a result of
having more agentic capabilities. Is
that fair or how do you think about the
cannibalization?
>> Yeah, it's interesting. I think
one sort of observation I have is that
like at the beginning and I think
Sundar's done a great job of of sort of
talking through this is at the beginning
of the the sort of current AI era like
everyone assumed that
AI being able to answer questions for
you was going to be like negative sum
for for search. Um and actually what
ended up happening is it's been
incredibly positive sum for search. Like
people are searching more, people are
doing more. And so I think
>> are searching, too.
>> Yeah, and agent
actually again, there's like this whole
market that spawned at the same time
that agents are doing more, at the same
time that humans are also searching
more. And so I think it will be
Obviously, there's a finite amount of
like human time in the world. Um
but from from like my early feelings of
how a lot of this is playing out, it
does feel like it's it's very positive
sum from like an ecosystem value
creation, like how the human behavior
aspect of it turns out. I think it's
like somewhat clear in the next 1 to 2
years, much less clear you know, 3 to 5
years from now when the technology has
improved and the products probably look
a little bit different than the way that
they do. But ultimately, like that is
the success of product. I think like we
we have a bunch of conversations with
Demis all the time and it's like the
point of building the technology is so
that it can go and do stuff for you.
Like that point like success for Google
like probably doesn't look like you
know, maximizing eyeball time in front
of our products. It's like maximizing
outcome for customers to like do the
thing that they want to do so that they
can go and live their life and do what
they want. And so I feel like
you'll you'll probably see us go down
the route of like maximizing outcomes
for customers and like not maximizing
eyeballs.
>> Yeah.
I have this term stuck in my head,
agent-led growth. Like it seems to me So
I'm using using coding agents a lot in
my personal time and, you know, I just
let the agent make all the
infrastructure choices for me. I'm like,
I don't care what database you tell me.
>> Yeah.
>> And and so and the reason I ask is you
know, it's true in coding today. I would
imagine it's maybe going to be
generally true for a a of things, let's
say shopping
down the line. Um how do you think
that's going to change how advertising
works, how value capture works for for
the aggregators?
>> It feels like it's a very similar trend.
This isn't perfectly true, but a lot of
these things are just like proxies of
each other, like the way that SEO works,
I think like is directly correlated with
like the way that um like I forgot what
the term that was, it's like GEO is like
the generative engine optimization or
whatever it's called. Um
And so it does feel like there's a lot
of correlation between the uh between
the things. My guess is it looks like
much less of a radical shift than than
the than I think maybe what we assume
right now, just cuz these things
compound on top of each other.
>> If you were to
you know, grade the scale of agenticness
in terms of crawl, walk, run, where are
we in terms of how agentic the Google
suite of products is?
>> Yeah, that's a that's a great question.
It's definitely like crawl right now. Um
and I think some of this is like all of
the inherent product tension for Google
is like you have what, 13 billion plus
user products. And so like I actually
think we have some more like labs-like
experiences where you're probably closer
to running uh or walking. Um but I think
like most of the product experience
today is definitely closer to crawling.
And I think that's just like the
stewardship responsibility we have sort
of building a product that's being used
by lots of people. Like I don't think
the long tail of customers are like
ready to have AI running and just doing
all the things. Like they probably they
want to be in the driver's seat. They're
cautiously taking the first step. And I
think the the Google team and like
search is maybe like the most
quintessential example of this. Like I
think they have a lot of responsibility
to actually do that in a way that it
brings people along and doesn't just
like change everything of how they
interact with the internet and the way
they associate with products and stuff
like that. So
>> Yeah. Which products do you think are
closest to the walk?
>> That's a good question. I think Gemini
app is definitely closest to walk. And
so for for Spark, I think having a 24/7
always on agent like literally going and
potentially doing a bunch of actions on
your behalf is definitely like one of
the frontier use cases. And I think
you'll see I think like anti-gravity is
another one where it's like you can have
autonomous coding agents, you know,
rebuilding operating systems and doing,
you know, billions of tokens and
spending thousands of dollars on your
behalf. And I think those are
again like more and actually like
they're in GDM as well as another angle
of this. So, I think like GDM is taking
like very much like a a frontier look at
this where I think like the rest of
Google's products I think are like more
incrementally getting there which again
makes makes reasonable sense to me.
>> Yeah.
Do you think that Google ends up with
one, two, three product surfaces for for
using AI or thousands?
>> It's tough.
I think a lot of this is actually baked
in just like how humans consume
products. And my sense is that there's
something nice about like having this
like compartmentalization and this like
specialization of products where like it
becomes if you end up with a product
that is like doing everything for you,
inherently there's more work involved in
using that version of the product. I
think I think would be like the default
state. I think maybe somebody will spin
together like the truly magic experience
that doesn't make that true, but I think
I think the long tail of folks end up
having to spend more mental energy and
more time to actually like get the
general purpose product to do the thing
that they actually want to do versus
like there's something nice about I
click my calendar app, it just shows me
my calendar. Like I don't need to worry
and deal with anything else.
>> This is my hot take for why slide decks
have existed for so long of just like
you know, the thing the piece of
information you want to be exactly in
the same place. Um and I think like we
as humans are just actually very used
used to that as opposed to
the idea of a generative interface
sounds so cool to me, but it's like are
do our brains really isn't it just more
cognitive overhead for us?
>> It definitely is in certain cases and I
think somebody needs to again there's
there's a lot of incredibly smart people
in the world and so maybe somebody will
find the experience that like makes it
feel more natural, but to me right now
I'm I'm maybe not 10,000 is the extreme
version. I'm guessing it looks more like
more products going after sort of like
different
and maybe the other answer is like I
don't know what it looks like for Google
for the ecosystem. It looks like a lot
more products, I think. Like and that's
that's really exciting. I think like how
Google will end up strategically
deciding like do our customers want to
deal with us having 10,000 products or
would it be better to only have three?
Um will come down to like a strategic
decision for us.
>> That's totally makes sense.
Um when I talk to companies in the
enterprise, they say, you know,
everyone's talking about agentic AI, but
the only place they've seen agents
really working is coding agents. Do you
agree or disagree with that take?
>> Yeah, I think it depends what your bar
for working is, which I think is a lot
of the nuance of this. Like I think if
you're if you're truly trying to like
offload very complicated tasks for for
domains in which like it's the models
haven't actually crossed the threshold
of quality, then like I think that's
definitely true. Like the it's not going
to solve the problem, but this is
something that I want I wish we could
like measure. A good example is like
open router for example is like
measuring, you know, the the total token
consumption that's happening. And so you
can sort of like see these trends play
out over time of like how much more
intelligence is in the world you know,
now versus a year ago. In parallel, the
thing that I'm actually really
interested to measure is like how long
is the average like thing the average
like agent run or the average task
actually taking place. And it's I don't
think it's something that they publish,
but I feel like they probably have
interesting data. I'm sure there's
others. Cuz because I I do think you're
like seeing these like new model
capability lands or new model drop and
and it's like spiking up. And and maybe
the the curve is still like very low
right now, but like you're seeing those
like early signs of it spiking up or to
like long running tasks and all the
model labs are talking about like we
released this new model and it did, you
know, 3 days of autonomous work or
whatever it is."
Um that that's the extreme, but I think
in practice you're seeing that like
trickling up like pretty pretty quickly,
which is really interesting. So, even if
the enterprises haven't felt it outside
of coding, like they are going to like
this year um as as sort of a bunch of
those other use cases get get much
better as well.
>> From like a, you know, from the DeepMind
perspective, do you think long horizon
agents is like a KPI that matters? Is it
the Is it the KPI that matters?
>> It definitely It definitely matters.
Um
I think for DeepMind like we're doing
lots of things, which which we can talk
more about later. Like there's, you
know, a a huge portfolio of of different
bets that are taking place. Long writing
agents obviously matters a lot. And I
think also like specifically coding
agents and that matters a lot. Like it
clearly is an accelerant of like every
other part of your business if you have
a great coding model.
Um and so making sure we have that I
think is is super top of mind.
>> Got it. Um I'd love to shift gears a
little bit and talk about coding.
>> Yeah.
>> Um okay, I'm going to ask a hard
question.
Uh
a lot of my developer friends were using
Claude for a long time.
OpenAI saw that declared code red. Codex
is now really good. I'd say my friends
are maybe split 50/50 now in using
Claude and using Codex. I don't hear a
ton of them using Gemini, which is
always kind of puzzled me.
Um
what's going on with that?
>> Yeah, it's a great question. I think
there's one there's one part of the
story that I'll add, which is which
which is it makes it even more which is
uh
December the narrative was that Google
had won.
Um and when we landed Gemini 3, I think
it was like such a such a profound
improvement from a model capability
perspective. I think a lot of the
narrative was like Google has taken a
huge leap forward um and and made that
happen. And I think it what was
interesting to see sort of as a as an
ecosystem participant uh is like how not
how quickly that narrative shifted, but
just like the next wind of the narrative
obviously was like all the agentic
coding stuff that happened over over the
holidays and then into January and
beyond.
Um and that was that was not that long
ago.
Um and so it's a it is a
>> Feel like we've been in warp speed ever
since.
>> Yeah, for sure. And but it is it's a
matter reminder of like just how fast
things can can change.
Um I think the observation is is not is
not unreasonable. I do think the what's
happening behind the scenes for us is
like trying to push the frontiers as
fast as possible on coding.
Um and so I think antigravity actually
like is an important part of that. I
think one of the takeaways is that it's
actually really hard to make a great
coding model for this like um for this
developer use case of like really long
running sweet
work if you don't actually have a
product that does that. And so I think
like Google realized that. That's why
this sort of like windsurf uh deal
happened. It's why those folks came over
and then ultimately built antigravity
and sort of we've been using internally
actually and Sundar showed this at IO.
Uh just like the graph of growth of
token consumption inside of Google. Um
so you sort of like you need that engine
to spin and sort of the meta comment
again is like the engine is spinning. It
takes time uh in order to like actually
make model progress.
Um but I'm super confident. I think the
the folks the group of folks who we have
working on code is like uh I describe it
as like the Avengers of AI internally.
Um and so like it really is like the
some of the best people inside of Google
trying to push the rock up the hill on
this stuff and it taking it super
seriously and trying to push. And I
think three flash um
you know, notwithstanding like some of
the conversation about like the price
and stuff like that like is sort of a a
step towards actually starting to bring
a lot of these capabilities
um and like the fruits of that labor
paying off. Like it's a flash model
that's better than any pro model we've
ever really released from a coding
standpoint. Um and the pro models were
really good before. So there's another
thread of this
also which is like everyone forgets that
there's like pre-training windows and I
wonder like somebody should like track
this online which would be interesting
to see.
>> Meaning like the big run, like what
clusters have been available and like
>> Exactly. The big The big runs are like
are an interesting thread of this and so
it like it might look from an external
perspective that like oh you're you're
super behind in some way and like
actually you you miss all the context of
like where the big runs are and where
the large pre-training runs are.
Um so I think that that also like
obviously there's
pre-training has historically been like
a massive strength for DeepMind like we
have some of the best people in the
world and so excited to see sort of the
fruits of that labor and and everything
else that's happened. Like 3.5
flash was like all post-training gains
which is really cool. Um so a huge uh
huge testament to the team that the work
that that team did to actually like make
the level of gains and like surpass the
previous pro model um literally just
with post-training which is awesome.
>> Mhm.
How religious are you all about dog
fooding internally?
Like are for example are DeepMind folks
still allowed to use other models or is
it like you guys are using the Gemini
harness now and we have to make this
really really good?
>> Yeah, there's I mean I think people it's
so healthy to be using other models just
cuz like it's it's so sometimes hard to
like actually grok what's happening in
the ecosystem if you're not so like I
use all the models I use all the
products. Um I think like you know
uh folks across the rest of DeepMind are
doing the same thing. You definitely
have to use the Gemini models though. Um
it's just like great from uh from a
feedback flywheel perspective and it's
part of how they get better is like
DeepMind has and Google more broadly has
like a hundred thousand plus incredible
engineers who are using the models and
giving feedback and like it should be a
competitive advantage for Google because
we have that scale of sort of
engineering resources and like the depth
of the talent and can run you know AB
tests and live experiments and all that
stuff. So
um
I think you have to use all the models
but I think for for the majority of
folks it's like Gemini as the daily
driver which is great.
>> Do you believe in this narrative around
like a like a soft takeoff of like once
you have a good enough agentic coding
model, then it accelerates the pace of
research progress and like it's a
self-reinforcing cycle?
>> It seems obvious that that's true, but I
don't I maybe I'm I'm too I've drank in
too much Kool-Aid that that's [laughter]
that that's the case.
>> seeing the signs of it yet?
>> Yeah, I mean I you definitely see some
signs of this. I think the signs that
are like still early is doing this from
a model perspective. And I think part of
the context of that is like the resource
allocation for some of these like larger
training runs is just like significant.
And so like you you definitely still
have like a human in the driver's seat
of making those decisions cuz like
you're not going to
accidentally, you know, take 10,000 TPUs
to go kick off some job that like
actually doesn't make that much sense.
Um, but from a product perspective, you
for sure see it. Like I think we're
seeing this on our team. Like we've
built mobile apps using anti-gravity and
like we'll launch them to the world like
faster than I think any team at Google
has ever built a mobile app. Josh's team
did this with the Gemini Mac OS app and
sort of like end-to-end delivered an app
sort of faster than any team had ever
delivered a Mac app at Google. Um, and
it's because of it's because of agentic
coding. And so it's great from a product
perspective.
>> I think you've said in the past that if
you could have a system that could build
anything with code, humans can't compete
on the same level and that's narrow
super intelligence. Do you think we've
reached that point?
>> It is interesting. I think
um
this like narrow super intelligence
example is interesting to see how
obviously it kind of feels that way for
coding right now where like coding is
like just so good um that it does kind
of feel like narrow super intelligence.
I don't know it depends how you actually
end up the details of quantifying this.
But I think the important thing is like
if to your point earlier, it works
incredibly well for code. Um,
and so
it would be great if it did a bunch of
other things, but it's actually just
like so impactful that it can be great
at code. Um and so I spent a lot of time
just like letting that that fact sort of
just like wash over me because I think
it's like obviously building AGI super
important and very interesting, but like
building AGI if it sort of like takes
away from the story of like the current
present capability of the technology, I
think it's actually like kind of a bad
a bad sort of like trade-off. And so I'm
trying to like always hold these two
things in my head equal at the same
time, which is we need to build
general-purpose technology, but
obviously it's so impactful to have this
thing.
And it feels like it hasn't taken away
sort of it's been one of the best
positive outcomes is that
I feel like it hasn't taken away from
like human developers. Um it really does
feel like an accelerant of what human
develop like I as a human developer feel
like I have more agency in the world. I
feel like I can tackle this is my
personal experience. I feel like I can
tackle more ambitious problems. I feel
like used to
kick around ideas and they were like
slightly out of reach um and I would
just be like ah wouldn't it be nice.
Um and now I have the opposite problem,
which is I'm I'm kicking around an idea
and I'm like I could probably make this
even more ambitious and and sort of it
does it adds a different layer of sort
of um
responsibility or like a some a
different layer of burden actually
because I'm like oh I can't just like do
the the sort of MVP of this. Like I
actually need to like go 10 steps
further because the technology enables
me and like resetting my my level of
ambition I think is something that I
I've also spent a bunch of time thinking
about. But I think that will happen in
other these like vertical super
intelligence domains
um
which will be interesting and it feels
like we're going to get a bunch of those
before we've like solved like it's
almost like jagged like jagged super
intelligence I think is what we'll end
up with.
>> What verticals do you think we'll get
super intelligence at next?
>> That's a great question. I do spend a
lot of my time, too much time probably,
thinking about coding these days. So,
I'll think for a second of like the
other
the other domains.
Um
I think part of this is like things that
have like better verifiability,
obviously, are like the ones where
you'll you'll see the gains happen more
quickly.
Um so, like things with like math and
finance. Actually, like science could be
a really interesting one. Like, it would
be fascinating to see like some of these
domains where
there's some level of verifiability like
actually like really start to take off.
Um
which would be cool and I also think
like an important thing in this like
broader narrative about just like what a
what impact AI is having on the world.
Like, you almost like want that to be
the case in the sequencing of like
things that work. You want you a lot of
these like really, really good,
impactful, positive things for the world
to happen
um as early on as humanly possible so
that like folks understand what the
potential positive impact of the
technology is. So, I think science could
be a really interesting one. Yeah,
there's obviously there's all the stuff
happening right now with like math
proofs and stuff like that, which I'm
not a mathematician, so it's it's
somewhat over my head, but
um
>> I saw a great tweet the other day. Uh
why did they have so many have so many
problems?
>> Exac- that's a that's a good one. I like
that. That is a that's a good like
t-shirt.
>> Um so funny. Okay, I but speaking of
Twitter, I went through your Twitter
before this, so I'm going to read back
another tweet at you. The good thing
about Twitter is there's a public record
of all your predictions, so
>> need to turn on that auto tweet deleting
[laughter] feature or whatever it was.
>> Um last October, you tweeted, "Everyone
is going to be able to vibe code video
games by the end of 2025."
>> Yeah.
>> Did that end up being true?
>> It feels close and I think there's I
mean
it obviously not AAA games. Like, you're
not building a you know, the next Call
of Duty or GTA yet. Um
but I think it's it feels
closer [snorts] than it's ever been.
Um
and
I think a lot actually a lot of the
interesting bit about video games is you
actually need to end up building a lot
of this like other stuff. Like models
and we were talking off camera before
this like 3.js is a great example of
this. Like 3.js makes a lot of things
possible that weren't before, but
there's still all these like rough edges
that like just a coding agent doesn't
solve. And so you need like, you know,
sprite generation and like the models
aren't very good at doing that natively.
And so you need like some orchestration
layer and tooling in order to make that
happen. There's a bunch of other things
like that that like are core to like the
gaming video game experience
that need to have a high degree of
reliability that I think it feels like
it's within reach, but actually like
requires a lot of like product
scaffolding work in order to create
experiences that are like reusable and
replayable and sort of like have the
level of depth and requires a little bit
of taste in there.
Um
>> Do you see people making a lot of video
games inside AI studio and the other
developer surfaces that you have?
>> Yeah, and so this was actually based on
like us looking at the early data and
there was something like in AI studio at
the time it was like 20% of all apps
that folks were making were actually
games. Like people were trying to build
games. A lot of it
>> Is that the most popular category?
>> It's not the most popular category
anymore just cuz I think like the the
ecosystem has shifted and like the user
base has has shifted, but it is a lot of
a lot of games. Um
>> What is the most popular category?
>> I think it was like it's like 20% like
finance related stuff, 20%
>> like counting their money that much.
>> People like I think it's it's something
around crypto actually. I think it's
what people are doing a lot of stuff
with uh with finance. A lot of like
personal productivity things and a lot
of gen media stuff actually because
obviously the Google suite of gen media
stuff has Yeah, has done a great job.
Um
But I also think GDM has sort of like a
obviously Demis cares a ton about games
and sort of like started his career in
doing AI stuff because of games.
Um and so I think we'll we'll have some
interesting swings at this and
um our team actually in in Kaggle, which
is sort of a bunch of the AI
benchmarking stuff we do in GDM, sort of
works with GDM to build this uh game
arena, which is uh sort of our way of
sort of like testing
progress towards AGI, like using games
as a proxy, which again is like very
deeply rooted in in GDM's uh history.
So.
>> How close do you think we are to, you
know, rando off the street with a good
idea can vibe code a really fun playable
game?
>> I want to say this year. I actually I
think it's I think the model capability
makes it possible. I think this is where
like I've gotten excited on the product
side and what you know, we were again we
were also talking off camera about sort
of like the startups in this ecosystem
because
um it feels like it's possible. It
doesn't feel like there's a gap in model
quality. It feels like there's a gap in
like you someone who knows what it takes
to build a great game actually like
putting the scaffolding together in the
right way to make that possible. I think
there are folks who are doing this right
now and so um some of it is like a
discoverability and awareness thing that
like people just don't even know that
they can do that. Um and some of it is
just like
maybe certain categories of model
capabilities are just like slightly off
and we're like, you know, weeks or
months away from like that chasm being
crossed and then it just like working
for most people.
>> And so this is a good segue into when
I'll ask you about world models next,
but do you think vibe code of video
games is more likely um
going to be, you know, game engine plus
coding agents based or do you think it's
more likely to be world model based?
>> Yeah, I think the what will end up
happening is the definition of world
models will blur, which we should talk
which we should talk about with Omni. Um
and
it will still
I think the like coding agents will look
like some sort of world model type
system.
Um but you actually do need
to make world models useful for like
real things, you need like scaffolding.
Um and so I think there's again there's
actually a bunch of interesting startups
like doing work like figuring out what
is the scaffolding for world models so
that you can take them from these like
very open-ended inherent design of world
models very open-ended spaces and like
do it in a tangible way so that it's
like grounded in a use case that like
you could use in a reoccurring way. And
that could be somebody maybe will figure
out the scaffolding for world models to
make games possible but like the
inherent nature of world models right
now I think make it so that it's like
actually not well suited for
like games in their current form but the
progress has been crazy so who knows
maybe in like two years the the versions
will be able to but at least in the
short term it's like coding agent plus
some sort of game engine I think is like
where you'll see way more alpha from a a
games perspective.
>> That makes sense. Okay so you said the
definitions of world models are blurry.
Can we unpack that?
>> Yeah I mean I think like Omni is a is an
example of this you know we launched
this at IO you can sort of taken any
input create any output
um and I think Demis sort of like framed
it to the world
uh rightfully so as as a world model
because of just like the level of
understanding that it has of the world.
I think that like technically looks
different than
um and I'm I'm not an architecture
expert on like the way that they we've
done world models before but it is
different from an architectural
standpoint than what's happened in the
past
um
which I think is positive because it's
getting closer to like some of the ways
in which it might actually be more
scalable
and historically like it's been like
super not scalable. It's like very very
expensive to run
>> Yeah.
>> traditional like online world models.
>> Genie being like yeah okay so if you
think of traditional world models as
being like an action conditions video
model almost
>> Yeah.
>> then like
right now what we're when we when we say
world model what we actually mean is
a model that has some understanding of
the world as opposed to being strictly
technically a action condition video
model.
>> Yeah and and so the interesting thing
though is like it has understanding of
the world but then it also has that like
really great and that's where like the
line is blurry to me where it's like it
can do a lot of those same use case It's
not real-time right now, but like it can
do a lot of those same use cases that
you would describe or like
visually could create with that same
exact world model, which I think is
what's most interesting to me. So, I do
feel like this like world model video
model thing is going to is going to
change and play out in a in a different
way than was obvious before.
>> And how does it work under the hood?
Like whatever you're able to share? Like
is it Gemini plus video models? Is it
something different entirely?
>> It is It is a single model, which I
think is the important part. Like this
was actually part of the original desire
was like
you were training like eight different
models to do all of those things
historically. It's like you have a text
model with the baseline Gemini model.
You have audio, you have music models
with Lyria, you have Nano Banana, you
have VO video models, you have a We have
a whole suite of audio models and like
it would be great for us, our customers,
um if you just had a single model to do
all those things. So, it is like a a new
setup that sort of makes that possible.
Um it's not like routing to a bunch of
different models, which like we You
could have imagined we could have done
something like that actually before and
done like a Gemini Omni model, but this
is like a true Omni model. Um and it's
starting with like the the use case that
works the best right now, which is the
why it's the one that's available. Um is
this like video editing capability. Um
the Technically, it's like functional
with the other things. It's just like
the quality isn't isn't like perfect um
and is not state-of-the-art. So, we we
haven't rolled that out yet. Um it's
also just like the first
crank of the model turn on Omni. It's
the Omni Flash model, the first
iteration.
Um and so, we'll have like much, much
more capable, uh powerful versions,
which will be which will be exciting to
see.
>> Mhm.
So, we could edit this set so it looks
like we're
>> Yes. Yeah, yeah. We I I want this we
again we were talking off camera like we
should do that for the intro because I
think it just like makes all this stuff
more capable. And I've seen these
examples of like such subtle nuance that
like make me appreciate that it's like
the world understanding playing out. I
was I was giving a talk um
and was on stage with with my friend
Tulsi who leads the model team who I
don't know if you've ever had on before
but she's amazing. I love Tulsi.
Um and in I had mentioned to someone in
the crowd to like edit the video and
they had literally like took the picture
edited it with Omni in real time and
this like dog came on the stage uh and
like the other in the edited version the
other guests sort of like looked down
and see the dog they like chuckle a
little bit. This is while I'm like
opining about whatever
>> They were laughing at your jokes.
>> Yeah, that it was not my jokes. They
they [laughter] laugh at the dog coming
up. It jumps onto my lap. I sort of like
acknowledge the dog. I keep talking. I'm
like petting it or whatever. And just
like there's like so much subtle subtle
tea and getting that right and the model
crushed it. And it's just it it is very
interesting and like still trying to
like absorb and digest like what that
means for you know, the way we make
content and all these other things.
>> That's so interesting.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm I'm the biggest bull on generative
media and what it means and I mean one
of the things we've thought about for
our podcast is the visuals matter as
much as the content.
>> For sure.
>> Um that's how you catch people's
attention in the first place, right? And
and so okay, I'm excited to I'm excited
to play with Omni.
>> I'm excited too and I think the and and
I think you probably feel this way as
somebody who makes content but I've
historically like been like very for
myself personally like I don't use AI to
make any of content that I produce like
it's all my words, it's always my voice,
it's always my image and picture showing
up. Like I just I I feel like there's
just like so much alpha and
authenticity. And so like I would much
rather it be me than some AI version of
me. What I like so much about Omni is
that it's like not changing me. Um it is
like changing a bunch of these other
bits which are not me. Like I didn't
choose any of the like set around us or
the the coffee table. It's like so our
our words can stay the same and like you
can change these bits that are like not
personal um and do something more
interesting with them which I think is
really really cool and feels
it feels like the version of what I want
sort of like Gen media to be which is
like not a bunch of like AI avatars. Uh
it's like
>> island videos?
>> Exactly. Truly. Like it really is like
it's the original content. It's the
person. It's like the personhood is
there. It's just
different and amplified.
>> Super interesting. Okay, I'm excited to
play with it.
>> Yeah, we should we should
send some prompts right after this and
try some things.
>> mind the fruit videos though. I'm I'm
I'm happy for a world [laughter] of of
both.
Um on the coding side, you launched the
ability in AI studio for people to write
code Android apps.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> Um I'd love to you know hear how that's
going so far and and where you plan to
take that.
>> Yeah, it's super exciting. I think one
of the strategic things for AI studio
and actually this is based on like a lot
of the feedback from the ecosystem and
actually from developers, from others is
like so many Google products. Um there's
so many different like ways in which you
like touch Google through all these
different journeys of building a startup
or bringing idea to your life. And so
um we have this like first class
principle of like how do we bring
things into AI studio that make it so
that you are exposed to other parts of
the Google ecosystem without having to
like go through nine different UIs
across Google. Um and so Androids are
like a great example um not only of that
but also of
enabling people who wouldn't have
otherwise built an Android app. And so I
literally built my first Android app in
AI studio. Um very cool to see. It's uh
>> What is it?
>> Yeah, I I just did like a a plant not a
crypto app. Just a a plant one. I was
planting trees in my backyard.
>> app. That's cool.
>> Yeah, and so it was just like playing
around with the a gardening app as I as
I was kicking the tires.
Um I haven't had my like breakthrough
idea yet of what I want for a mobile
app, but I'm going to I'm going to come
up with something and see go compete on
the App Store.
>> Have you seen anything by coded like
really flying in the App Store yet?
>> That's a good It'd actually be
interesting to like see some analysis. I
don't know I'm sure it's like
accelerating a lot of things on the App
Store, but I don't know how much. Like I
don't know anyone like personally who's
who's done that.
>> Yeah.
>> It is interesting and I was going to
make the observation too that I think
the last time I checked the numbers we
were viewing it this morning, it was
like 350,000
Android apps built in AI Studio since
last week, which is crazy.
Um
and like excitingly it's like 350,000
apps that like probably no one was going
to build before. A lot of these are
personal, too. And so this is where I
think this like maybe Gen Y is like
farther out there, but I think like the
idea of you building software
to solve your personal problem is like
very real right now. And like people are
doing that. It's like one of the most
common use cases of a lot of these
products.
Um and being able to like unlock a bunch
of the native capabilities of the phone
I think is also really interesting cuz
you just have so much context that's
like in different places.
Um
so I'm I'm getting very excited about
sort of that opportunity and uh Android
feels like it's becoming the the
platform for builders.
>> Does it matter that something is an app
versus just like the web is so powerful
now?
>> The yeah, that is It's also very
interesting to see that play out. Web is
definitely powerful. There are certain
things that the operating systems have
that like you just can't unlock. Um like
lots of like native richness that
actually like make experiences feel so
much richer. I think about this for like
text messaging actually that like the
text messaging experience in all of the
in all the main operating systems feel
way richer to me than like any AI chat
app that I've ever used. Like if I could
just talk to AI in whatever texting app
I use, like I would be way happier than
having to go to some other app.
Um because I think we're also just like
conditioned on like the operating
systems, so.
>> Yeah, makes sense. Okay, I want to ask
about the model eats the harness or the
model eats the scaffolding. What are
your thoughts?
>> Yeah, I think it's true and I think part
of this is like
what we
have historically thought of as the
model is not the model anymore. Like
when you I think like two years ago when
LLMs were popular, it was like the model
was like actually just a set of weights.
Um it was a set of weights and it was
like really like how can you like as
simple as possible send tokens in and
get tokens out. And I think we've just
like progressively step by step by step.
We still call it the model, we still
call it you know Gemini 3.5, you still
call it GPT whatever and and Claude
whatever, but like
it's actually not just the weights
anymore. It's like an entire expre-
expanding sprawling system that's built
around the weights um that's sort of
like enable a lot of these like next
generation experiences from agentic tool
calling to tool you know like all these
hosted tools, search, code execution,
etc.
Um you know the models are now being
spun up in containers and sort of have
an agent harness and all that stuff. So,
the scaffolding is like often times a
couple of steps ahead of like where the
what is like baked directly into the
model. And then what ends up happening
is like the model eats that scaffolding
and it becomes part of like the native
model system. And there's still value in
having sort of
the external scaffolding in certain
cases and like search maybe is an
example of this. Like there's lots of
folks who use different search providers
and there's different like use cases
that you want. And so like sure, maybe
the model can natively use search, but
you also want something else. Code
execution is another example of that. Um
but it does feel like
like maybe the agent harness is like the
quintessential example of this right now
where like everyone's like ah we got to
go build a harness and like the harness
is where the alpha is, and like I think
that perhaps won't be true at least in
the way that we think of the harness
today in 12 months. I think the models
will have sort of just like digested a
bunch of that. It'll be upstreamed into
the model, um and the alpha will be
somewhere else now. It won't be in sort
of trying to spin your own harness cuz
the model just like does it natively.
>> But I thought that the part of the
reason why people are building their own
harnesses is because if you use a
harness from any given model provider,
you're locked in, right? So, a lot of
the application companies want
flexibility, which is why they're
building their own harnesses.
>> Yeah, and I think that's part of the
scaffolding story is like that starts
out perhaps true, but then as the model
capability improves, like it it becomes
less true over time actually. I think
the model the like you you don't have a
generalized model if it can't use
another harness. And so, it is it is
important to deny I mentioned this uh in
another conversation with someone a few
weeks ago, but we need something like
harness bench, which is like actually
measuring like how good are all these
different models at adapting to all the
different harnesses. I feel like that
seems like a reasonable thing we should
we should measure as an ecosystem. Um
and I'd be curious to see like what
models are actually best, but
I think over time you expect they they'd
be able to use every harness. Um unless
you're like completely out of
distribution, which in that case like
you're still going to be completely out
of distribution even if you're using
your own harness. So, not sure it
matters much.
>> Fair enough. What about the application
layer? How do you think about where
independent companies uh can, you know,
have a hope of surviving when the model
eats the harness and eats, you know, the
stuff around it?
>> Yeah, it feels like there's so Yeah, it
is an interesting story that like both
of these things feel true. Both on one
hand I everywhere I look, I'm like
there's never been more opportunity to
go and build something. At the same
time, obviously the models are doing
more than they've ever done before. Um I
think there's like, you know, there's
that threat of capability overhang,
which I think there's a huge amount of
alpha in. There's the threat of the
model companies are like going after
these like very general problems um and
there's just like so much
value in these like verticalized
domains. If you have expertise in that
domain, you sort of like know the
customers, you know the ecosystem, like
it's just you can really like run laps
around even the best model labs because
like focus is the like superpower of
startups. Like if you can focus, you can
do anything
and if you look at all of the companies
that are big or doing lots of stuff like
there's just not a lot of focus and for
some for some reasons like rightfully so
because yeah, maybe I'm I'm overly
justifying, you know, Google strategy be
like we just have a lot of products. We
have a lot of users. We have a lot of
different things going on and so like we
actually can't focus in one domain. We
have an obligation to do a bunch of
things as a big company.
I think that's not true for startups and
so I think like 24 months ago we were
all asking ourselves like oh, wow, it
seems like the it seems like the
opportunity space is shifting and maybe
it's it's possible one of the outcomes
is there's less opportunity for startups
in the future. That feels like so far in
a way not what has ended up playing out
which is really positive. If anything it
feels like there's just even more
opportunity than there was. Like now
coding has helped you like close the gap
on like larger companies that have like
established code bases and all this
other stuff because you can just like
run way faster and write software
quicker.
The agentic like primitive is like a new
category that you can sort of build
products around that like actually in a
lot of cases to the conversation about
like the risks involved with building.
Like there's risk involved and so like
what's your like the risk appetite of
different companies is different. And so
if you're willing to take more risk in
some domains like you can win a user
cohort who's like interested in also
taking risk. There's so much
opportunity.
>> Awesome. I'd love to talk about Google
DeepMind's culture and I'm curious what
does it feel like to be inside GDM right
now? You know, we we had Demis at AI
Sense. He was so inspiring. I've heard
Sergey's back. I've you guys have Noam
Shazeer back. Like
walk me through what it's like to be at
GDM right now.
>> It's incredible. I do try to take it all
in because it is like a it's like a
moment. I I try to reflect as much as
possible in the in the chaos of all the
things that are happening just because
there's like so much cool stuff going
on. Um
GDM's culture is interesting and like
maybe three observations. One, back to
this thread of like focus, we're doing a
lot of things. And so I think you see
sort of
I I think about this a lot. Like from a
portfolio perspective, I think we have
like one of the strongest portfolios
which is really exciting. But you do see
these moments where like another lab or
another company, whatever it is, will
like pull ahead in a certain area where
like we under invested, just like hadn't
been focused enough in that domain.
Um
and it's cool to see like the the way we
go about trying to like close that gap.
I very much I very much appreciate it.
Um I think I've I've watched the Demis
Thinking Game documentary a few times.
Um and like you see sort of like a lot
of like details of that like original
culture and just like the way that
strikes work and all this stuff which is
actually really similar today is like
you just get a bunch of smart people
together and like go solve the problem.
Um and I I love that and it's like very
cool
um
to to be a part of. Another one is this
I think you see the culture permeate
from like who the leaders are. Um and as
I maybe
uh uh
this isn't like a a perfect
characterization of the ecosystem, but
like Demis is a Nobel Prize scientist um
and like the sort of OG of a lot of this
stuff. And sort of you feel that in the
DeepMind culture. I think like Sam is
like the you know, maybe one of the
world's best businessman ever. And like
you sort of see that in the OpenAI
culture and the way that they go about
the world. I don't have a strong sense
of who Dario is. Um but like I think
Anthropic is a very interesting place
and you sort of I at least as an
external observer like there he seems
like an interesting guy and so
uh somewhat esoteric and so that seems
like they're sort of like that in the
DNA in the culture of the company. You
know, all the other labs are interesting
um
but I like this like very scientific
approach to the world um and the way
that like Demis looks at like
the reason he's doing this and the
reason they started this mission was
like literally to like solve disease and
all these things and it's like so easy
to get and again I'm always trying to
pull myself out of the moment but like
it's so easy to get lost in this like
competitive race of who's
pushing a number higher on sweet bench
or whatever it is. It's very easy to
lose sight lose sight of like the reason
we're doing that is so that like we're
can solve problems that humans actually
have and there's a
uh my my favorite quote from all of
Silicon Valley is something like, you
know, we can't let other people make the
world a better place more than we can
which is like what this moment feels
like
>> Like the Gavin Belson
>> The Gavin Belson [laughter] quote and I
think about that all the time and it's
like we're all fighting over who can
make the world better more than the
other person which is like at when you
frame it like that it seems really goofy
to me um
and so it's very much not zero sum um
and I think that's like a
a way of looking at the world. I think
the last thing about DeepMind's culture
is like we're very we're it's sort of
the engine room of Google uh which I
think is like literally the Twitter bio
now of the the DeepMind Twitter account
which I love um
>> You man the DeepMind Twitter account?
>> I don't. I I don't want any
responsibility manning other people's
accounts online too much uh too much
responsibility to do that but it does
feel like that too. So it's like on one
hand you have sort of like the
deep-rooted lab culture and the other
hand you have sort of like all of these
partners across the Google ecosystem
that we're collaborating with everybody
from Android that we talked about
earlier to Google Cloud to you know,
Gmail to workspace etc. etc. and so it's
an interesting blend of like
I think there's lots of research work
happening, but like there's tons of
applied work that's happening to like
actually like work with some of the like
the forefront customers. Like deploying
Gemini to billion user products is a
problem that like only two companies in
the world have.
And we have 13 of those products. And
like we the you know, Google goes
through this all the time now. And it's
such an interesting place to like see
that happen and see the innovation that
takes place in order to make that
actually possible. And I feel like it's
you can only do that inside of inside of
Google, which is really cool.
>> Beautifully said.
Did they Did they give them a lot of
heartburn when you joined and were
tweeting a lot?
>> That's a good question.
>> Did you have to get sign-off from
from comms?
>> I'm very one of the
the silver linings to my Google
experience has been just like how great
that group of like folks across
marketing and comms are to to work with.
And I think like I you know, their job
is protect Google, make sure we tell the
right story, make sure a bunch of bad
things don't happen. And so, I have a a
ton of appreciation and partnership with
them. But it's been an incredible
experience to like be able to go try to
tell the story that resonates with
developers
in a way that feels authentic and not
have a huge amount of you know,
I don't you know, I don't have to get my
tweets approved all the time and all
this stuff. Like it's very very positive
culture. And I think hopefully I I'm
always trying to walk the line of not
not burning the the trust and goodwill
that that I've accumulated with those
folks. But it's been super positive cuz
ultimately I think it's like it's really
hard for Google to tell this like
authentic story. It's just they're just
like it's a big company. There's a lot
of people. There's a lot of opinions.
And so, you take the like magic of
Google and you water it down through
like a lot of people and a lot of
process. And you actually
>> Yeah.
>> You you miss the beautiful story, which
is like Google's doing the most
interesting technology in the world and
like helping our users with some of the
hardest problems in the world and
it feels it's a privilege to like get to
help tell that story. So, it's it's a
lot of fun. I enjoy it.
>> I love what you're doing. I love what
Josh is doing and you guys have put a
really kind of sincere human touch on
as you put it the most important problem
of our time. So.
>> Thank you.
>> Uh well, wonderful Logan. Thank you so
much for joining me today. This is a
very far-ranging conversation everything
from agents and coding to world models
and harnesses and DM culture and you
know lots lots of nuggets here. Thank
you for for joining me today.
>> This is a ton of fun. Thank you for
having me and I'm excited to see what
the folks cook up where we've been
sitting this whole time maybe in front
of us.
>> And maybe they'll be a dog.
>> A dog something.
>> come true.
>> [laughter]
>> I love it.
>> Awesome. Thanks Logan.
>> Of course.
>> [music]
[music]